Russia's invasion of Ukraine, it has been said, would be the first to introduce a new front line - the internet. And cyber-attacks have been raging on both sides, with warnings things could escalate. But a digital war is being waged in many other ways too - from questions about whether technology companies should block content to Russia, to online censorship, the spread of disinformation, and Ukraine's internet facing disruption as missiles fall. What is going on in the cyber-war? The Anonymous hacking collective has declared cyber-war on the Russian government. Its claims should be treated with scepticism - but it has reportedly hacked state TV channels to show pro-Ukraine content. There has also been hacking against Ukraine, with denial-of-service attacks hitting government websites and the emergence of what looks like ransomware without the ability to recover data. This "wiper" malware - "intended to be destructive and designed to render targeted devices inoperable" - had been found in dozens of Ukrainian systems across the government, non-profit and information technology sectors, Microsoft said. And the Reuters news agency reported Ukrainian officials had alleged a Belarusian cyber-spying operation was targeting personal email accounts belonging to Kyiv's forces. In the UK, Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng will reportedly hold talks with Paula Rosput Reynolds, who chairs the National Grid, amid fears of a wave of state-sponsored Russian attacks. And the National Cyber Security Centre has called on organisations to bolster their online defences. Although, its former head Ciaran Martin told the Guardian newspaper cyber had played "remarkably little part" in the conflict so far. Is the internet still working in Ukraine? Internet access is likely to be patchy during any conflict, as bombs and missiles damage networks and equipment. And on Friday, heavy fighting in the city of Kharkiv saw significant disruption, according to NetBlocks, with connectivity to Ukraine's main internet provider, GigaTrans, dropping below 20% of normal levels. Entrepreneur Elon Musk, responded quickly to calls for his satellite broadband service, Starlink, to be made active in the country. On Monday, Mykhailo Fedorov, Ukraine's Minister of Digital Transformation, confirmed the country had received crucial terminals required for the system to work.  