To get a roundup of TechCrunch’s biggest and most important stories delivered to your inbox every day at 3 p.m. PDT, subscribe here. Happy Tuesday Crunch, our crunchy compatriots. Today, there’s a ton of fun events-based updates for you. If you’re coming to Early Stage in Boston, Pitch to VCs there. Also, if you want to speak at Disrupt later this summer, you can apply now. Oh, and sustainability is getting a whole stage all to itself at Disrupt. It’s gonna be rad. See you there? Also! Darrell is arguing that “not only is generative AI already here — it’s already dealing killing blows,” in his latest piece, “A knife so sharp you don’t feel it cut.” — Christine and Haje The TechCrunch Top 3. Startups and VC. The hype around ChatGPT, OpenAI’s viral AI-powered chatbot, hasn’t reached a peak yet, Kyle reports. That’s the vibe one gets from Y Combinator’s Winter 2023 batch, which features no fewer than four startups that claim to be trying to build “ChatGPT for X.” Today we are keeping an eye on the legal case of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Charlie Javice, the founder of student financial aid startup Frank. The SEC is charging Javice with defrauding JPMorgan in connection with the $175 million sale of the company to JPMorgan Chase Bank in 2021, Mary Ann reports. In between refreshing the news re: what’s happening with Trump’s indictment, here’s a few more stories to keep you entertained: What’s a fair price premium for startup shares?. A new market update report from Redpoint Ventures contains insights for Series B and C founders who are planning to fundraise this year, reports Alex Wilhelm. “Middle-stage startups today still look rather expensive,” he writes. “Either the stock market needs to recover some of its juice, or startup prices need to fall more for things to get back to ‘normal.'” What’s a fair price premium for startup shares? Three more from the TC+ team: TechCrunch+ is our membership program that helps founders and startup teams get ahead of the pack. You can sign up here. Use code “DC” for a 15% discount on an annual subscription! Big Tech Inc.. Today we bring you Twitter: everything, everywhere, all at once. Amanda and Alyssa give us a month-by-month rundown of Elon Musk’s Twitter, from the layoffs to the verification drama, where changes meant to take effect on April 1 came and went, leaving us all feeling like it was an April Fools’ joke gone wrong.Meanwhile, just as NASA named its new moon crew, or “Moon Unit” if we may, Virgin Orbit filed for bankruptcy. Darrell writes, “The bankruptcy filing follows weeks of bad news for the company, including a pause on all operations, a brief hunt for more money to continue as a going concern and massive layoffs to try to right-size to the company’s actual available budget, which today’s news essentially confirms was nonexistent.”