Three years after Google invested $450 million in home security company ADT, the two companies finally have an integrated offering for customers looking for a DIY smart security setup. ADT’s Self Setup system, which launched last month, will now integrate with Google Nest devices — including its video doorbell and indoor and outdoor cameras. While ADT has offered Google’s smart home devices as part of its professionally-installed packages since shortly after the investment, this is the first time the two companies have offered a complete software security integration for a DIY product. Now ADT’s sensors and Google’s cameras can be controlled directly in the Google Home app or on a Google Nest Hub, as well as through ADT’s app. Plus, you can arm and disarm the system using a Nest hub (second-gen or Nest Hub Max). ADT Self Setup can be professionally monitored with ADT SMART Monitoring for $24.99 a month, which includes the option to enable video verification which can help with faster responses from emergency services. But you’ll need to pay for a Nest Aware subscription as well, bringing it to $34.99. This is a compelling integration on paper, especially considering ADT’s press release implied the starter kit, which includes the Nest Doorbell, the hub, and a handful of sensors, would cost $219.98. That’s much less expensive than Google’s excellent but overpriced $400 Nest Secure system. (That product was discontinued just after the ADT partnership was announced.) The Verge contacted ADT to confirm this, as we couldn’t find the $219.98 pricing on the site. ADT’s Chief Technology Officer, Raya Sevilla, told us that price is an introductory offer. Eventually, a starter package will cost $479.99. Right now, the “Starter” is on sale for $380, not $220. We’ve still not found any $220 package on the site, despite repeated requests for clarification. ADT representative Karyna Malave pointed me to the Build Your Own option that’s on sale for $80. But that is just for the hub and omits the doorbell, cameras, sensors, and all of the other equipment you need to make it work. Adding those parts quickly brings you well over $220. This pricing puts ADT Self Setup hardware higher than popular DIY security systems from Ring and SimpliSafe. Ring Alarm hardware packages with a wireless video doorbell start around $340. Ring’s professional monitoring costs $20 a month. SimpliSafe’s base package with a camera runs $465, and Simplisafe’s monitoring (which includes video verification) is $28 a month. All security companies seem to have their hardware packages on semi-permanent sales, making cross-comparisons tricky. We’ll also have to wait to see how ADT’s hardware pans out. From the looks of it, ADT’s Self Setup hardware is the same as it sold with its ill-fated first DIY home security system, Blue by ADT. Originally LifeShield before ADT purchased it and revamped it, Blue launched a week before the Google investment was announced. At the time, it included a suite of cameras, including a video doorbell. ADT has since discontinued sales of Blue but still supports the service. ADT’s Self Setup includes door and window sensors, motion sensors, flood and temperature sensors, and a keychain remote for disarming the system. It also requires an ADT smart hub, which includes a keypad and acts as the brains for the sensors. Customers can purchase the system packaged with Nest products, including the Nest Doorbell (battery, not wired), Nest Cam indoor and outdoor, and both of Nest’s thermostats, through ADT’s website. According to a video from ADT, you can use the ADT sensors to trigger smart home automations in Google Home, including turning lights on or off when the motion sensor detects motion. It is also possible to arm and disarm the system from a Nest Hub (second-gen) or Nest Hub Max. Sevilla tells The Verge that it's possible to integrate existing Nest products into Self Setup by adding them to the “home” in the ADT Plus app. Updated Thursday, March 30, 2023, 10:53 AM: Added new details, including around pricing for the Self Setup Starter Kit, that existing Google Nest products will integrate with the system, and that it is compatible with the Nest Hub Max. 